---
modified:
  - 2025-12-11T16:08:39-05:00
---
# v1

So the paper consists of five modules, introduction and three papers, m, c and T and M is about the multimodal which is a statistically robust pattern observed on the growth by the vagueness of the promise or position. And the ultimate vision of this paper is there is a problem which is commitment and flexibility doubly binds mobility ventures.

And we suggest three insights and action items in the module D, which is one for each paper, first is target analyst or believer. That's multiple ways to success. And the second is there is a statistical warning that given the same amount of positioning, the vagueness of positioning, the more money you earn, the less adaptive You become, and the less adaptive you become, the last proof you have,

T, and The last T is the

growth, given the vagueness equals zero, is smaller than the growth given the vagueness equals one, and We provide a generative mechanism using a simulation, the idea, is the specific promise attracts the analyst type of investors, and the vaguer Promise attracts the believer type of promise. And the vaguer ones has the higher adaptability,

so that end up having a higher growth rate. So

now to jump into specific papers, the first is multi modal. And this is there is a mover and a Stayer and the mover, the multi modality mostly comes from the mover side, and the theory here is from the vagueness to the adaptability to the growth. So the vaguer you become, the more adaptive you become. For someone, some learners, if you will, and that leads to higher growth. The second module is capital, lowers adaptation, and this is temporarily preceding events. And

the idea is the early capital can negatively affect the growth, and the mechanism is the early funding negatively influenced adaptivity, And adaptivity lowered adaptability lowers the growth that's temporarily preceding events. Now, where does the V comes in? It's an endogenous choice, and

the third one is the generative sufficiency, and it tells how the specific promise can get itself trapped. And what I mean by that is the founder has a choice of going specific or vague, and if I become specific, it attracts the analyst type of investors, and that lowers the delta V, and that lowers the growth. Whereas if you choose vehicles, one, then it attracts the believer type, and it increases the delta V, or the A, which is adaptability, and that leads to higher growth. So this can replicate, in some sense, the multi modal distribution. Given that there are two types of investors so.

# v2

interested in measuring the vagueness, and where the vagueness comes from. Is the pitch book data as a company description and how many markets they are exploring around and so Scott has tested two and choose one idea. And like probabilistic thinking, is how many options you have, for instance. So I am focusing on four variables, which is so v is the vagueness. And with this fakeness as a Thanks for your advice. Like I always, I trained to think of empirical way. So do you remember last time? Yeah, okay, so the growth is dependent variable, and the data is from 2021 to 2024 and we have like three years, but this default is in three years. This is 2021 cohort, meaning they have received early stage BC in 2021 and this V is the measurement I am applying to 2021 company description. Okay, so the general idea is the vague, like the common wisdom is, and based on the interview I had with the investors, they like precise arguments because it is testable, and that aligns with the entrepreneurial finance in terms of specificity. So my point is, people think that the more precise it is, the growth they would have, or like what, the higher probability of long term growth they would have. But the data doesn't show it like that. The data looks like this, meaning there are like, two peaks where you either become very specific and succeed, or you become vague and succeed. So my whole thesis is around, oh, why? What causes that puzzle?

So for say, what's that with the puzzle? What is puzzling?

Puzzling because I was expecting the more precise it is, the more successful they would become, okay, but there is a peak in the vague area, okay.

So is that actual pattern of the data that? Yes, okay. And how do you measure vagueness,

the numbers of keywords and whether there are some specificity, but that's like less important,

okay, so what you find is that there is sort of bimodal distribution, where if you're not precise at all, you don't raise money if you're too precise, you don't raise money. There's somewhere in between. Okay, okay, that's interesting,

and I think this might be relevant with your paper on Angel investors, on BC, has different investing pattern. But my story here was this, people are more like analyst type of investors, and this type is more believer type of investors. A good example is Elon Musk's fan like they are all believers, like whatever he says or like there is some thing that they don't want to test, but always just believe what they are trying to say. Yeah, so that's my hypothesis. There are two types of investors, and ultimately I am trying to show that. Okay, so there is three layers, meaning, like, first I show the statistically robust pattern, and this is where my mail to you in advance came from. You're interested in startup prediction, which is a little different from causal identification. It's my opinion. But this is the first layer. There is a theory called LTE theory, which is you first show what, and then how, and then why. And the why part is you design a simulation and generate the pattern that you observe in the what layer. So that's how I organize my thesis, meaning, first statistic analysis, I define the vagueness measure and then show that the growth is like this, but this is just statistical. And then in the second step, I show a little more temporal precedence of the reason why the growth, or here the vagueness does not appear. But A stands for adaptiveness, which is measured by delta V, meaning V was I started very vague, but I explored and identified some beach head market, and then my vagueness in three years has become 20. So here the delta v, which is a is 80. So if there are like exploring well and keep focusing, then this a one and a two would keep increasing, right? So the second paper is on the early funding that you got in 2021 may harm your overall growth, because there is a mechanism that you are committing into some promises, they're very specific, because you need capital, and then that prevents you from adapting. So it's very in date data is very this is the has the strongest effect of if I plot with the adaptiveness and the growth is very strong, positive. And that's acceptable because, if you like, A is similar to learning. So the more you learn, the more growth that you are observing, is acceptable. But I think the overall pattern of the higher capital you have, the lower growth you can get. That's, I think, counterintuitive. So that's what I'm focusing in the second part. So combining this part and this part, I am trying to show that there are multiple ways to succeed. You either choose to become very specific or to be very vague, and both can work. But if you become vague or specific that would attract the analyst type of investors, whereas if you become vague, that would attract the believers, like you are selling your butterflies. So that leads to so that two factors, the vagueness and that led leads to the attraction of the investor type. That leads to the adaptiveness, meaning, if you have very specific promise, and you are attracting like minded people who are here to test that, then it's my hypothesis that adaptability would be a little lower, because your sigma would be very high, yeah, like minded people reinforcing each other. I think I got the overall picture. Okay, you're really fast. My three years in here, help me. Help me connect any feed that would be welcome.

I mean, it's, it's all. Everything you say is possible. What I would say is, really, I think you have to think about what you want to do with this if your intention is to do a PhD. And is this? Is this all a plan is used to be a persuasion plan? Yeah. Okay, so I think the way you would persuade at least Scott Stern, I don't know, probably also Charlie, but Charlie's from somewhat different field so, but the norms in business school are relatively the same. There's a very clear roadmap, at least, in terms of what how things should be when it comes to the life cycle of a graduate teacher. At students. And I'm not saying it's good, right? I actually have a critiques to it, but there's a certain this, this, this road has been taken, okay, many, many, many, many times, and especially by mentors like Scott, who have had many, many students. So they have a recipe on how to build a pipeline of successful graduate students, and with a little bit of a variation, all of them look somewhat similar. It starts with a home run paper like that's the ideal, and the home run paper's very clear in management and economics how it looks like. It's usually has an IV strategy, is fairly narrow, at least in the sense that what is the core concept or idea that it wants to convey. And it essentially has a hook that's interesting. It's relevant overall for an audience, meaning that you're not going after a research project that is so novel that you don't know who you're reading, who's your your your scholarly essentially, friends or audience that you're going to talk to. So it has to draw on some literature. Of course, the grad students you know, maybe break through inventions that came out of grad school were people doing fundamental, fundamental new work, okay, but that's really serendipitous and got very rare,

just to construct shared understanding the audience is based in entrepreneurship, all three of them, right? And it would be really helpful if you can share your evaluation of which of the three would so be close to home run paper, if there is right.